All right,if I can ask everybody to now
take a seat,it's 10
and we have the instruction
to start at 10 sharp.
And whileyou're finding your seat,I'm just
going to briefly walk you through
the program.
My name is Moritz fromthe UN Office
forDigital andEmerging Technologies
and I'll be walking
through the program today.
And they are judging by the reception
yesterday evening.
This is really a lovely and lively crowd
that likes to socialize.
So I think you are really the brave souls
of digital public infrastructure to make
it
here at 10 in the morning.
A little housekeeping.
We do have coffee at the Vienna Cafe, so if
you want to get a coffee that is sponsored
by the conference, go to the first basement,
this is where you can take a quick coffee.
There are also gift bags over there with
my colleague Fisher.
And if someone is finding a little
microphone in their gift bag
this is not supposed to
be in there. So if you could return that
to Fisher, that would be great.
Also we have feedback forms allocated all
over the room, because we want to hear from
you how your experience here was
today,because only withyour feedback
we can become better
every year.
And before we get started,by walking you
throughthe agenda
I just want to get a quick overview
since this is open source week, and we had
so many different elements of programming,
WHO has been here since Monday and did the
UN Tech over, quick show of hands.
Okay, that's a lot of people that stayed
for the entire week.
Wow. Who only came yesterday?
Okay, also a few, and for whom is this the
first day?
Great.
So now everybody knows whom to talk to in
case you want to find out what happened in
the week before, or if you want to share
some experience.
I just want to take a moment to walk you
throughthe program
because we are trying to make
this as interactive as possible for each
of you.
So we are starting here in the morning
withkeynote speeches and
a panel on learning across
borders.
And then we have various breakout sessions
that
are organized by partners of the Office
for Digital and Emerging Technologies, and
this is really a space to co-create.
And then in the afternoon,starting at
three,after the lunch break
we will meet back here
and this is when we want to hear from all
of you on what your experiences during the
breakout sessions were.
So there's going to be space forus to
share what we worked on and
what we want to work
on in the future as a community.
Yeah, and without further ado, we are now
moving to the first segment.
And it's my pleasure to introduce Amandip
Singil,the Undersecretary General and
Special Envoy
for Digital and Emerging Technologies, to
deliver keynote remarks.
Thank you very much, Moritz.
Thank you. Thank you, good morning, and
warm welcome to the DPI Day.
It's been an exciting three days already,
and we have one more day after today in the
open source week.
We never imagined whenwe started witha
small gathering in 2023 thatthis will grow
and
this will grow organically, and that
almost, you know, we would lose control.
And it's a nice feeling.
So thank you very much to all our
partners,to all of you WHO've come from
different parts
of the world,often by leveraging your own
resources,giving up your time
valuable time.
So at the start of this first UN DPI Day,
I just want to reflect on a few things.
It's a special moment,of course,and my
first reflection is that
of gratitude to the governments
of the Dominican Republic and Nigeria for
co-sponsoring this important day.
Both countries are showing remarkable
ambition and
leadership in advancing digital public
infrastructure,and your presence here
today underlines the importance thatmy boss
Antonio
Polish,attaches to the digital
transformation agenda in Africa and
in Latin America and
the Caribbean. So welcome.
Now Moritz gave you a sense of the program
for the day.
Give us your feedback, certainly, because
it's the first time.
There's a bit of experimentation here.
We like this to be interactive.
We like you to come together in ways that
we didn't imagine.
But asyou might see,there's a focus on
these two regions
and we have some discussions
related to Africa later in the afternoon.
Yesterday, also, we had a nice session
with some experts from Africa.
On DPIs, there are power challenges around
interoperability, et cetera.
Now whenyou look at the embedding of this
day in the open source week
it's quite natural
because we are working witha broad base of
open source and
digital public goods on which
if you bring architected
collaboration,then you end up with
digital public infrastructure
that pulls together supply anddemand in
ways thatwere not imaginable earlier with
a pure
connectivity, pure telecoms infrastructure
type of an agenda.
And all of these pieces, both open source
and DPIs, are built with the public good
in mind.
So these are public interest technology
efforts
but they don't rule out profit making.
So this is the beauty, the paradox of
these approaches.
And today, I just want to ask briefly, and
I want to show two slides, and Brian, if you
can help me. So how many people are
familiar with the concept of DPIs?
OK, almost everyone in the room.
So one way of looking at DPIs is this kind
of a stack approach where
you build up players
identity, payments, data exchange, and use
cases.
Some people have started withfinancial
payments,then discovered the need for
universal digital
IDs. Others have started with digital IDs.
Some have started with use cases, for
example, Bangladesh is a case in point.
So you could start from any place,
depending on the need, the context.
But at the end of the day, you need some
architecting.
And then if you look at what it helps you
achieve, so take the example, we'll pick up
four examples, there is India, where the
combination of the Bich Laidya Dhar and the
Jandhan push on financial inclusion raised
account ownership, bank account ownership
among adults from 35% in 2011 to nearly 80%
by 2021, 400 million plus people pushed in
the financial mainstream.
The EKYC costs dropping from close to $20
to about $0.25.
Then Estonia,primarily its e-government
infrastructure,e-signatures
secure digital ID data exchange
saves about 2% of GDP annually by reducing
paperwork and administrative burden.
And then you have Brazil
where the PICS Instant Payments Platform
launched by the Central
Bank in 2020 just cost about$4 million to
bill and
has delivered more than $5.7 billion
in savings in just one year.
Look at the leveraging that DPIs can
provide you.
And recently I was in Kazakistan, that's my
fourth example for the day, over six, seven
years Kazakistan has moved at lightning
speed and
has a comprehensive approach to delivery
of government services
including by using the UN's
multi-dimensional poverty analysis
the digital family card,they make sure
that
no family that's in need of emergency
assistance
gets left behind.
So if Brian you can show us the next
slide,now these are all the things
most of the things
that become possible with DPIs.
And I want you to focus a little bit on
three,four,and five
because the others we've looked
at.
So this is not only about inclusion serving
the underserved population, but also about
creating scale for startups and
entrepreneurs in emerging economies.
It's also about leveraging intra-regional
trade.
Africa's intra-regional trade is less than
its trade with the European Union.
So there's huge potential there to drive
up growth in Africa and
DPIs if they are interoperable
they can boost that intra-regional trade.
So these are the reasons why we have a big
focus on DPIs, the global digital compact
universalized this concept after the
breakthrough in the G20 withthe Indian and
the Brazilian
presidencies. So we now have a universal
framework to pursue these DPIs.
And of course for us at the UN protection
the human rights angle is very important.
My boss says that in some cases DPIs fail
and they fail because there's not enough
trust and there's not enough trust because
there are not enough safeguards and people
feel vulnerable or subject to forces they
cannot control.
And if there's no trust there's not going
to be uptake and
if there's no uptake there's
not going to be impact.
So safeguards shouldn't be an afterthought
it should be integrated into
DPIs by design
and we've worked with our colleagues from
the UNDP to build the universal safeguards
framework which is getting good uptake
around the world.
And this is a dynamic framework
whichaddresses risks while
unlocking the benefits of DPIs.
And one of the breakout sessions today
would be on this theme and
I hope you share your
insights and your experience.
Then we are also looking at some over the
horizon issues, emerging issues.
The interface of DPIs with AI.
In some cases like you see withthe India
stack AI is coming intoDPIs
last mile delivery
use of local languages, payments with
voice activation in a trusted secure way.
But then other cases we need to think about
DPIs as an infrastructure that creates the
data flows allows people to build their
own contextual
some may say sovereign AI solution
solutions. We're also looking at
interoperability as I mentioned earlier.
I think that's a very powerful way.
Just this morning I was in a call witha
government in Asia andbuilding a sandbox for
looking
at interoperability issues.
There are some concerns around
interoperability, especially for smaller states.
So we need to find ways to address those
concerns while upholding interoperability.
And then aspart of the DPI insights
community alongside Axion
we are providing country
level research grants to generate evidence
of what works and what does not work.
I think this experience sharing is
essential on an ongoing dynamic basis so
that we avoid
those gaps in trust and in realising
impact.
So looking ahead,you know,in November
we'll have the second DPI summit with
some of our
partners co-develop Gates Foundation,
UNDP, ITU.
This will be in South Africa, which is the
G20 president this year.
And we are excited to co-host this summit.
And I hope today's discussion helps us
shape the agenda forthe summit
particularly our
breakout sessions.
Let me conclude by sharing a thought about
the global digital compact, which is our
North Star from the objective of addressing
the digital divide, accelerating progress
on the SDGs, all the way to governing AI
for humanity.
I see Velas is here, he's going to speak in
a while, give a keynote, you know, the high
level advisory body on AI, its recommendations
and the follow-up that's going on.
And I just want to say this is not a
framework for governments alone.
We cannot take it forward without the
involvement of stakeholders fromcivil society
the private
sector,academia-independent researchers
andthe regions andthe countries that
will actually
realise the impact. So join us in taking
it forward.
There is an endorsement process, it's a
very light touch endorsement process.
We have hundreds of partners WHO endorse
the GDC from around the world.
We come together in town halls,earlier
this week we had a town hall with
a few hundred
endorsers.
It helps us to build situational awareness
of how the GDC is being implemented in
different
parts of the world,implementation
mapping,we call it
and is not only of use to us but
also to all implementers so that they can
see WHO they can partner with, where the gaps
are, where they should focus their effort
and so on.
So thank you so much. I wish you an energizing
and collaborative day of discussions.
Thank you very much, you steam.
So now we are,as you said,we are happy to
be partnering this year with
the governments
of the Dominican Republic and the
Government of Nigeria.
And so
therefore I now have the pleasure to welcome
his Excellency Minister Zeke Munfroyd.
His Government is advancing a bold agenda
on digital public infrastructure and
is actively
contributing to the conversation around
safeguards and
we are really thrilled to be working so
closely between ODAT and the Dominican
Republic.
So while he is coming on to the stage,
please, a round of applause.
Thank you.
Mr.
Villas,President andTrustee of the Patrick
McGovern Foundation
Minister of Government
representatives, we are not just opening
TPI day, we are opening a new chapter in how
governments serve their people.
On behalf of the Dominican Republic
an issue defined by resilience driven by
innovation
and committed to inclusion,it is an honor
to stand with
you in this room of change makers.
We gather at the pivotal moment one with
the promise of digital transformations are
real
but so are the risk of the pending
inequality and exclusion.
And so
we ask ourselves will technology widen the
gap or will be harnessed to bring people
closer to power, to dignity, to
opportunity.
Digital public infrastructure is not just
a tool, it is a test of our values.
It challenges us to make the state more
agile,more accountable and
above all more human.
The Dominican Republic through
our Ministry of Public Administration is
advancing a comprehensive
modernization agenda grounded in three
strategic pillars.
First, human talent development, deploying
digital tools and capacity building programs
that embed transparency, efficiency and
accountability in our institutions.
Second,a government reference architecture
grounded in DPI principles and
modular building
blocks to ensure
interoperability,scalability and
sustainability across all state system.
And lastly, people center digital services,
secure, proactive and accessible, designed
to reduce friction and foster genuine
inclusion.
For decades,governments have to often
outsource
getting things done to management
consulting
giants.
As Beth Simone Novak works in solving public
problems,this reflects persist because
consultants
offer leaders an illusion of certainty,yet
they lack public accountability
are driven
by, yet they lack public activity or driven
by short term contract renewals and rarely
anchor their work in equity and
legitimacy.
The Dominican Republic is choosing a
different path.
We are investing in our civil
servants,trusting their talent and
building internal capability.
So that delivery, excellency, becomes a
public service norm, not an external purchase.
This strategic approach is already
transforming public service and
daily life in the Dominican
Republic throughout concrete initiative
such assuch as
CISC or integrated system of Central
Public Administration Service, streamlining
finance, personal and planning, X wrote, or
national interoperability platform,
connecting over 70 institutions.
The single citizen account,enabling
seamless,one time authentication for
multiple service
via GABDO.
Soyo Ereve,a user-controlled digital
wallet that
securely stores very five credentials
and official documents.
These are not isolated projects
they are interconnected components of a
coherent public
policy that streamlights administration,
boots, agility and deepens public trust.
Coverning the digital era demands more
than new tools, it requires new mindsets.
Novak reminds us public problem solving
must be reimagined
rooted in experimentation
data and co-creation.
That is why our administration keeps every
ministry withdesign-thinking toolkits
agile
methods and open data platforms to spark
citizen-driven solutions at scale.
Harvard's late Clayton Christensen
identified five core skills of successful
innovators
associating, questioning, observing,
experimenting and networking.
We have embedded these very abilities
intoour public sector,training academies
encouraging
officials to link disparate
ideas,challenge,assumptions,pilot quickly and
force partnerships
across disciplines.
By cultivating these habits,we are
transforming bureaucracy intoa laboratory for
progress.
As former U. K.
Minister Michael Goof once said,governments
have a long price,cognitive skills
the analytical
evaluative and above all, presentational.
That must change.
What matters now is
delivery,real,practicable
miserable improvements in people's lives.
Our reforms place outcomes metrics andusers'
satisfaction ahead of slide decks and
speeches
ensuring that every initiative is judged by
the dignity and opportunity it creates for
citizens.
For too long, institutions have value
polished analysis over tangible outcomes.
Today, what truly matters is delivering
real, measurable results that improve lives.
DPI made public service more immediate, more
impactful and more human-centered, driving
advance in education,health care,social
protection anddignity
to ensure lasting change andwith
the support of international agencies and
funding partners such as IDB, the World Bank,
the UN System anddonors such asEU
Co-develop andCDPI
we are cultivating a culture of innovation
throughout the public sector.
Innovation drives when we ask a better
question.
Connect ideas across disciplines of
service withempathy,experiment boldly and
collaborate
widely.
These capabilities are taking root in
every layer of government
enabling the state to
become not only more efficient,but more
adaptive,responsive and
attuned to the evolving needs
of our people. To that end, we have
undertaken several bold commitments.
We are finalizing a national framework for
digital public infrastructure, establishing
the technical,operational andgovernance
standards forcoherent and
sustainable DPI development
and for an integrated public service
system.
Second,we are developing a national data
governance framework to enable secure
responsible
and interoperable data exchange across the
public andprivate sector that
will also sustain
our national AI efforts.
We are investing in evidence-based
decision-making
strengthening our capacity to
analyze,measure
and evaluate digital policy impacts.
This representative profound shift changes
no longer imposed.
It is built from within by public servants
WHO are curious, collaborative and committed
to meaningful results.
On the international state, the Dominican
Republic leads by example.
We are proud front-runners in the 50 in 5
campaign, openly sharing our frameworks and
lessons learned.
We stand firmly behind the global digital
andcompact and
actively support the digital public
goods alliance, advancing open,
accessible, rights-based technologies.
We believe digital progress is a shared
journey,one thatdemands solidarity
mutual learning
and collective action to ensure no country
and community is left behind.
The DPI deserves priority equal to roads,
energy and healthcare.
Its success depends on shared
vision,strong political will
sustainable investment and
safeguards that protect data and uphold
citizens' trust.
As part of a strategic collaboration
withthe United Nations Development Programme
two key
components will be supported, a digital
readiness assessment with a safeguard lens.
The UN Global Tool to assess national
dignity,maturity across skills,governance
regulation
and infrastructure,including a specific
alignment withthe Universal DPI Save With
Art frameworks.
Second, the AI landscape assessment, mapping
or national AI ecosystem, identifying key
stakeholders,assisting capacities,available
data andchallenge forethical and
responsible
AI developments.
From the Dominican Republic
we reaffirm our strong commitment to a
public administration
that empowers every individual throughout
their life journey
harnessing digital transformation
not merely to innovate, but to expand rights,
simplify process and unlock opportunities
for all.
Digital transformation will only succeed
whenit is DPI human,rooted in empathy
equity
and inclusion.
We deeply appreciate the leadership of
United Nations and
all of international partners
in advancing these agendas.
Together, let us build a digital future that
is fair, open, inclusive and fundamentally
human, a future that leaves no one behind.
Thank you.
Thank you very much,Excellency,for the
speech full of enthusiasm and
the commitment to
really tackle the fundamental and hard
challenges that governments face.
And the USG said it yesterday, the United
Nations is not only a place for countries,
but it's also a place for the mighty
stakeholder community.
And therefore,I would like you to join me
in welcoming Villastar
WHO is a global leader
at the intersection of technology, equity
and the public good.
As the president of the Patrick J.
McGovern Foundation and a member of the UN
Secretary
General's high-level advisory body on
artificial intelligence
Villast brings a powerful voice
on building inclusive and ethical DPI that
builds and protects communities.
Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen,
friends, good morning.
It's so nice to be with you here today.
You know,I was reflecting on the fact that
over 25 years of being a computer
scientist
and a technologist,25 years often spent
under fluorescent lights with
very little natural
light, a lot of pizza, probably too much
soda.
Like working on building things
it is such a unique time in our lives to
be here with
the United Nations.
I want to acknowledge the Secretary General
for his visionary leadership, for bringing
us together in a conversation that
says digital transformation isn't a matter
of technology.
It's often a matter of rights and values
and principles.
I want to acknowledge under Secretary Gill
for your visionary leadership here in this
institution as an enabler of conversations
that have transformed the world.
And I think sending us up even on a day
like today to bring together a group like
this.
So I want to thank you and your team.
Please join me in a round of appreciation
for the UN staff.
I want to tell you,I mentioned to you
many,many years asa technologist
and I've heard
recently a strain of communication that I
found particularly problematic, and I want
to name it right up front.
The idea,coming off andout of Silicon
Valley,that technology and
technologists are neutral.
That in some way thatthe things thatare
built,the lines of code we have written
the products
we have shipped, don't in many ways embed
the cultural values, decisions about power,
things that affect every human life in the
products we build.
There is no such thing asa neutral
technology,and there cannot be such a thing as
a neutral
technologist.
In a world thatfeels particularly
fractured
and we need only to look at the headlines
today to see the global challenges
thatexist in food security,in the fog of war
in the
potential of systems that are fragile and
breaking under the weight of the needs that
are upon them, I actually want to bring
into this room a different idea.
The idea that peace is no longer a matter
of treaties or of laws, but it's a matter of
infrastructure,of systems thatare
reliable,that can create trust,that through
the application
of technology build a new form of a social
contract.
One more people feel agency,they feel
ownership,they feel like the systems that
have been
built have not been built to affect them,
have not been built for them, but hopefully
in the most ideal case have been built by
them.
We're already seeing this across the world,
where DPI infrastructure is being used to
do things in places where
the fragility of the existing system has
never served its constituents
in identity andhealth access,in DPI systems
thattransform payments infrastructure
that
allow us to engage witheach other in direct
one-to-one transactions,to engage with
the
state,to engage withthe institutions of
society in ways that
actually create positive outcomes.
It's important to note thatthis doesn't
happen simply because
technologists build products
and put them out in the world.
It happens becausewe have an intention
around the ways thatwe design these products
around
embedding in them not just the values of
each of us asindividual creators
but the values
that we agree on because
in many ways they help us shape what a
future vision of DPI-based
technology should look like.
I should also note thatat a point whereAI
is entering the scene
many of our conversations
about DPI thathave evolved over many years
forthose of us WHO
have in the work are now
shaken not merely by a change in urgency
or change in speed
but a change in the capacity
of what these systems are capable of.
That AI systems often,when you look at
them at the end of a value chain
a consumer-level
product or a product that's driving
decision-making,is shaped so
meaningfully by interventions
and inputs that happen far away from the
proximity to the problem.
The challenges of data integration,of
responsive and
representative data that's then moved
through models thatactually have been
tuned andtweaked not merely for
efficiency or hopefully
for profitability, but rather for purpose
with an understanding of WHO will be affected,
WHO will be served, WHO will be protected,
and maybe most importantly, WHO will be left
out.
It strikes me thatwe could think aboutsystems
thatare designed without intention
thatcould
propagate the exclusion that exists in our
world today, the inequality that exists, and
also thatif they were designed withintention,they
could take what we've already done
the
beachheads we've established around the
mechanisms of daily life andinteraction
and extend
the capacity to allow individuals andsmall
businesses
those institutions of civil society
that we care aboutso deeply,to express
themselves in more effective ways
to actually reshape
public conversations at scale.
So in order to consider what these systems
might look like, I think again through the
lens as a technologist of how we build the
things that we build.
There is a world and a world view that's
espoused deeply that say, "Leave us alone."
We will innovate, don't regulate us, we'll
build for the future, and I have to tell you
that I reject thatproposition head on,that
if we can't live in a world where
our multinational
systems guide us in the technologies we
build
then all we've done is fractionate human
innovation
to be about human ego.
So let's instead think aboutwhat
multinational collaboration would look like
coordination
on open standards,the idea thatthe systems
we build have to be interoperable
not merely
across sectors or industries, but across
borders and regions.
Infrastructure thatrespects sovereignty
without hard-coding fragmentation
shared governance
models thattreat technology not asa
product to be exported forprofit,but as
infrastructure
to be co-created and co-stewarded, because
the alternative is a splintered world, it's
one wherewe say those WHOhave the capacity
to create,whether because
of the investments
in talent or becauseof their ability to
have data or compute,or merely because
they express
the political power to be able to
implement these systems at scale
guide decisions for
the billions of other people on the planet
thathave never signed up to that
particular
social contract.
So let me say this plainly to the
technologists in this room,the policymakers
the people
around the world WHOare watching,I want to
come back to the idea thatpeace as
an ideal
can no longer be defined merely as the
absence of conflict.
But rather,as a presence of systems
thatwork forpeople
that work even in times of extreme
fragility or vulnerability, systems that are
embedded in a shared sense of values that
operate across political systems andacross
boundaries,if we believe that
peace is a shared
endeavor, then we should build our infrastructure
in ways that represent those values.
If we believe in trust,we have to earn it
by building systems thatare transparent
that
are participatory, that are just.
If we think digital rights matter, then we
need to build DPI that takes us from values
and principles to code,code to
governance,governance to policy and
policy back to innovation.
I think peace is a design choice.
As we talk about efficiency, as we talk about
deploying DPIs at scale, I wonder what our
world would look like if we think aboutthe
technologies we build because
they make humanity
more just, more dignified, more humane.
Thank you all very much. Thank you very
much, Villas.
And now we're moving to our first
panel,and we were supposed to hear from
the Nigerian
Minister for ICT, but he will deliver his
keynote address after this first panel.
So stay tuned for that.
So the first panel is going to be about
cross-border learning.
And across the sustainable development
goals,learning from
what works in other countries
and what doesn't work,has been key to
scaling andthe same holds true for
digital public
infrastructure.
So with DPI now at the heart of the global
digital compact, we are in a moment where
digital cooperation should be core of our
activities.
It's really essential.
And this panel will explore global
collaboration efforts on digital public
infrastructure.
What can we learn from other countries?
And what examples are there on how
countries can collaborate on building DPI
together?
So I would like you to welcome our
panelists.
And we're starting withYolanda
Martinez,WHO's the practice manager for
digital development
in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Warm round of applause for Yolanda.
And we're also welcoming Daniel Morenzi
WHO's the principal engineer at the East
African
community and really works at the heart of
digital cooperation on DPI.
Next, please welcome Sheila Warren, WHO's
the CEO of Project Liberty Institute.
She is an internationally recognized leader
in advancing and emerging technologies.
And interestingly
so she will play an active role in the
people's bid to acquire TikTok.
Next please welcome Mark Lepash fromthe
ADB
WHO is a digital technology innovation
specialist.
And ADB has a growing and interesting
portfolio on DPI and artificial intelligence.
And last butnot least,please welcome
Tiffany Ferris,WHO is the CEO and
co-owner of the
consulting company Palantir, but also a
board member at the Drupal Foundation.
All right, we promised to make this more
interactive.
So we are starting off with a quick
audience, Paul.
And we want to hear from
you what you think the biggest challenges
are the global DPI adoption
faces while we're giving a warm welcome to
our panelists one more time.
So whilethe results come in
and I encourage the panelists to also take
a look over their
shoulders and see what the answers are that
come in as we go through the first round of
questions, maybe we could go to the bar
that will be helpful, the bar view.
What we're starting.
So Daniel,the ESC's mission is to deepen
the economic andpolitical and
cultural integration
of the East African states.
And DPI can obviously play an accelerating
role for these objectives.
So fromyour perspective,as the principal
engineer
what does the reality on the ground
look like? What are the challenges that
you face?
Yeah, thank you so much and thanks for
having us here.
First and foremost, maybe for the audience
using less than a minute.
This African community is an
intergovernmental organization that
has eight member states.
So when we are discussing about the DPI and
also the way it can accelerate the digital
integration asthe major agenda
we face major challenges of the fragmented
harmonized laws.
You find that in technology, the countries
are not on the same level.
So forlast now to move forward to make
sure thatwe bring the technology as
a cornerstone
to the integration agenda of the ESC, we
focus on to the harmonization.
Second major gap that we face is around
the capacity-building.
Capacity-building is a major challenge,and
I think I invite each and
everyone to focus
on how, as we discuss about the PIAI and all,
our policy makers, our collaborators, and
our environment, they are not on the same
level of the knowledge of the technology.
So you find thateven whenyou are investing
or you are taking the decisions that
can make
transformation within our digital
transformation agenda
we are not on the same levels of the
members of parliament WHO pass the budget,
the ministers WHO need those services, the
PSS and all.
So another major gap is the internet
penetration as this within our ecosystem.
Of course, this is a continental challenge,
but with more better penetration within our
region, we are trying to enable that.
So but the internet penetration is a major
challenge.
So whenwe are now doing the digital
transformation DPI andthe rest,putting into
the mind that
internet is not affordable, it's a major
challenge.
So again,the solution to that,we are
looking at the designing solutions that
are based onto
the either USSD in terms of our affordable
in the digital divide as
we have a major challenge.
So the East African community is one of
the most moving region within our continent
if
even not comparing to the rest of the
world.
But we have designed the solutions that
goes with our means.
The last challenge that we majorly have is
the digital infrastructure.
Digital infrastructure is a major
challenge whichyou find that
only the four data center
is within one country.
But the rest is two, three, I mean, even not
as big, but not again affordable to support
our SMEs and the FinTechs that we need to
move within this ecosystem.
So basically, that's the region we are in,
but it is also a region that has embraced
the DPI.
I think you are aware that
the mobile of money originates within East
African community.
That's where today we are speaking that the
mobile of money started from Kenya has now
flashed over the rest of the world and
we are now having embraced the digital
payment.
For people you will find that
over 300 million we have in East Africa
more than 60% are using
mobile of money. They don't even have the
bank accounts, the transaction is moving.
So if you look at the other e-government
services,if I give an example of Rwanda
those WHO
know Rwanda, almost all government
services are pure online.
And this is what we are also embracing
withthe A-cities in Kenya
also we are doing it
with the Jami exchange of Tanzania
our region we are embracing e-government
services.
So doing that, it's one of the way we are
doing the transformation.
Despite the challenges we have got, we
have also got the opportunities.
It's also a region that has the youth
within our community.
When you look at the A-cities in,it has
created more than 160,000 jobs and
transaction wise
more than 70 million per day, it's going
through the A-cities in.
So most of them are on the USSD and
we are not limited by the technology we
mentioned.
Looking at the,yeah,the Ugandan side the
same
looking at the Iran by mention has created
more than 150, 000 jobs.
So the digital transformation despite of
the challenges we have in our region
the DPI
has also embraced to create the jobs and
also has supported our giving of the
services.
The last point I wanted to give is the
exchange of the data.
I think we are the only region in the
world whereby all customs
living authorities are
exchanging the data on their your time and
you would do see, you would do it in a seat
from Mombasa, we have one or two pots.
Goods exempted, I mean, moving from Mombasa
to Uganda to South Sudan, they are online.
You are condominium goods moving within
the transit because
you have embraced data exchange.
So that's a blessing that I think we can say
that it is moving our region higher and as
the East African community wanted to say
that it's not only that the DPI is becoming
a cornerstone, not only for the East Africa,
but for the rest of Africa in general and
moving within inclusivity.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much,Daniel,for showing
that
the challenges really are across the
entire
stack and that it's not a one-dimensional
challenge, but really multi-dimensional, but
also what the great benefits for the East
African community can be.
I want to turn to Yolanda fromthe World
Bank because
recently the World Bank published
its white paper on DPI together with the
creation of its digital vice presidency.
So DPI is getting a much larger profile in
the World Bank and as the practice manager
for Latin American, the Caribbean, what is
your experience that you're seeing on the
ground?
Which challenges thatDaniel mentions
resonate andwhat is the approach that
the bank takes?
Thank you so much for the invitation to be
here.
It's really a huge motivation to see a
United Nations convening with
so much diversity but
also with so much commitment.
So I have the pleasure to work with the
Dominican Republic.
In one of the biggest implementations we
have on DPI,as the minister mentioned
in digitizing
government services at scale thatare
proactive,that are seamless,integrated and
that can
only be done when you have three main
aspects in place.
Number one,the highest political support
andthe fact thatthe minister is here
the fact
that the president has put forward a very
aggressive agenda on digital to really aim
for better services but
also competitiveness is a very good
example of what political support
means.
And another very important element and it's
very related to what the former colleague
also mentioned is institutional capacity
to deliver digital.
We need digital
authorities,ministries,agencies that
have enough transversal mandate to put
in place the principles of modularity,of
interoperability
of a standard-based digital
governance to really leverage the benefits
of digital public infrastructure.
And that's something that the bank really
works forward with.
And the third element is the digital
skills.
How we empower every single digital entity
in governments to deliver digital.
You mentioned Rwanda and for those of you
WHO are familiar with that example, you have
Edembo there.
And it's an entire team working in Edembo
to follow these principles in digitizing
government
services at scale.
EmPesa withKenya really teach the world
what cash transfer programs and
digital payments
can look like.
So I think we have great examples across
the border now from
the Dominican Republic to
Africa butalso to Asia,Kazakhstan thatwas
also mentioned at the very beginning
is super
in a very important roadmap to translate
their services into proactive services.
And the only way thatwe can do thatis
withpolitical support
institutional capacity and
the digital skills to deliver.
And in the World Bank,we also took that
agenda in place by straightening our
capacities.
That's why the digital vice president was
created last September.
So we're very happy because digital vice
presidency is turning one.
And the main objective is to have a more
comprehensive approach on our operations
related to digital.
From connectivity,of course,which is
always a priority butalso through
a lot of financing
to make sure thatwe have DPI in place
a very strong digitization of government
services
agenda, the right governance framework to
leverage digital in with the necessary say
words butalso building on a digital
society that
can really leverage digital
transformation.
And the way we do that is with three main
elements, of course financing and in all the
countries thatare member of the world
andthey have an operation with
digital is present.
And withknowledge,you refer to other
important white paper and
we are a knowledge bank.
We are committed to make sure thatwe bring
countries together and
that we leverage partnerships
to reach that level of scalability.
And I would like to give you one example
to close this first intervention.
And during spring meetings,we launch a
consortium together withthe colleagues of IDV
CoDeVello
the World Bank using a platform called
Tred Heal with
the main objective to start building
a regional DPI stack.
And the first building block of that
regional DPI stack is the EID broker.
So something thatwas also mentioned in the
opening remarks is that
we need to build technology
together.
And the way we build it makes a difference
in how to accelerate adoption of that
technology
in different countries working on it.
So the first set of countries thatare
being on board,and again
the Dominican Republic
was the first country joining the Kocharies
to really make that mutual recognition of
digital identities a reality.
It's currently happening in the Mercosaur
countries between Brazil,Uruguay
Argentina
and Paraguay.
And withthe joint venture of this digital
like citizen initiative
we want to reach 33 countries
in Latin American and the Caribbean.
And a very strong presence of share at DPI
that
is built under the principles of openness
and a standard base.
So very much looking forward to get to
know the community that
are participating during
this DPI day andto continue creating a
convenient platform together with
other partners.
So thank you for having us here.
Thank you very much, Yolanda, especially for
bringing home the point that it's important
to have high-level political buy-in.
That's why we're sohappy forDPI to be in
the global digital compact and
are very grateful
again forour partners here today forDPI
day withthe Nigerian government and
the government
of the Dominican Republic.
I now want to turn to Tiffany,WHO is at
the Drupal board
and Drupal is a certified digital
public goods,and it powers digital public
infrastructure across the world because
like
you will see it in government
websites,public health portals,open data
and education systems.
So foralmost 25 years,Drupal has been
built and
maintained by a global community of tens
of thousands of contributors, and it's
really used across the entire world.
So as someone WHO has been involved in the
Drupal project for a long time, Tiffany, what
can we learn from Drupal for digital
cooperation on DPI?
Thank you so much for having me.
I think that Drupal does have some unique
lessons to share.
So it is one of the most widely adopted
web platforms in the government sector
and one
of the very few, perhaps only, across
enterprise.
And as Moritz just said, Drupal is 25 years
old, and yet we're still at the forefront
of interoperability of AI orchestration
and innovating every day.
So what's incredible is at a time when many
projects are being sunset, Drupal is still
growing at 10% per year. So I think that's
pretty incredible.
It's used daily by millions,and it's built
by thousands of contributors
even still today.
So those contributors are both individuals
aswell asorganizations
most of them -- most
of whom are outside the U. S.
So we have a -- as Moritz mentioned, there's
the Drupal Association, which is actually
a pretty small 501(c)(3) in the U. S.,
even though the majority of the services we
provide are to those outside of the U. S.
I think that our continued resilience and
expansion are rooted in the very deliberate
and thoughtful strategies andco-creation
practices that
I think provide a very valuable framework
for understanding how you might think
about
cross-border digital cooperation in line
with
the UN.'s global digital compact.
So I think there's three main areas where
Drupal has been a little bit different.
And I think it's really helped drive our
success in terms of our cross-border
collaboration.
The first is we have very transparent,very
inclusive
and very accountable governance.
So leadership in Drupal has always been,
you know, open to anyone.
It is jokingly referred to as herding cats,
which may be familiar to anyone WHO works
in open source,or those WHOmay work in
international relations,but,you know
we've made this
very deliberate effort to create our
leadership andour governance structures that
are distributed
that are open, and that are participatory.
So whether we're talking about
these technical leads or initiative
coordinators or security
teams, they're transparently structured and
they are available to anyone WHO wants to
participate. There's no pay-to-play in
either the project or the Drupal Association.
Leadership is earned through your
participation.
It is shared throughour governance andit
is sustained through
that kind of collaboration.
The Drupal Association then acts as a
steward.
We foster thatkind of infrastructure
andthe collaboration andthe funding for
the benefit
of all.
Our sole mission is to advance Drupal
withour community as
a high-impact digital public
good in service of a vision of the web
that is open, inclusive, and innovative.
I think the second point,and this goes to
what Vila said earlier,is that
we've invested
in a collaboration tooling initially
becauseit didn't exist and
you couldn't have it as
a SaaS solution,but those decisions thatwe
made really shaped the outcomes and
reflected
Drupal's values.
We've invested heavily over the years in
several iterations of collaboration tools
thatmake
participation feasible, effective, and
seen.
So the way we structure our issue cues, the
way we structure our contribution is done
in a way thatreduces friction,it helps
distribute the workload among contributors
and accelerates
learning and mentorship.
It's easy to start getting involved,it's
easy to participate in ways that
match the norms
that the community expects.
We have multilingual support,we have
automated testing
we have comprehensive contribution
tracking thatmakes sure thatthe participation
thatyou provide is accessible and
rewarding
for those WHO are contributing.
And we also have a very unique
contribution recognition system that
publicly acknowledges
both code and non-code contributions for
individuals and organizations.
That allows us to increase our engagement
andour community cohesion aswell as
incentivizing
our service provider ecosystem to donate
back.
And I think the third way that,you know,lessened
to learn fromDrupal is really about
how
we structure our norms.
It's often said that you come for the code
and you stay for the community in Drupal,
and I think thathas lent itself to the
stickiness thatthose of us WHO
participate in Drupal
have felt over the years.
We have norms not just about how we work,
but we have norms about how we decide when
we disagree. And I think that that's super
important.
We cultivate those norms actively.
And so while certainly coding standards and
other data standards are table stakes when
you're talking about interoperable software,
I think looking at the fact that we have a
very clear code of conduct that, you know,
sets behavioral expectations, but it's also
supported by a dedicated community working
group thatensures thatconflicts and
international
misunderstandings are managed respectfully
and culturally appropriately.
This intentional cultural design has
created a super resilient
inclusive community that
enables cooperation across our time zones,
languages, and cultures.
We have over 150 countries represented in
Drupal today.
It's huge.
And so Drupal is definitely thriving as a
very secure and trusted tool, but we also face
significant challenges thatI think are
important to keep in mind as
you start to invest in
open source tools and digital public
infrastructure.
Securing adequate funding to sustain that
infrastructure that makes Drupal possible is
a continuous challenge.
Funding constraints are the most challenging
aspect of maintaining an open source
project
at this kind of global scale.
You know, everyone wants to fund the things
that are new, the things that are shiny,
and just, you know, maintaining the funding
for what you already have is a little bit
like ocean swimming. You've got to do a
lot of work just to stay in the same spot.
And somaking sure thatyou plan forthat as
you're rolling this out I think is
important.
So,you know,I think in Drupal,even though
it's widely adopted by international and
national
governments, higher education institutions,
NGOs, and enterprise organizations in the
private sector, none of our funding
actually comes from those end-users.
In many cases, they can't.
There are legal andbureaucratic structures
thatdon't allow those organizations and
institutions
to fund it.
And then there's also just the fundamental
structure that we are U.
S.
based, and most
of our participation comes from outside
the U. S.
So thinking about
how to solve those critical problems of
international funding coordination
I think is key to making sure thatany of
these kind of open-source solutions that
you're
investing in thatbecome critical components
of DPI are able to be resilient and
maintained
in the long term. Thank you very much,
Tiffany.
I think there's actually a very big
learning on how to resolve conflicts when
you disagree
especially when you work on projects
across borders on DPI.
I want to go next to Mark fromADB andhear
a bit about
the ADB strategy on digital public
infrastructure because
you recently published a policy brief on
the different financing
options and how we roll out systems at scale
is, of course, one of the big questions.
Thanks a lot.
So first, allow me to thank the UN Office
for Digital Emerging Technology for inviting
the Asian Development Bank to this event.
So yes,maybe to echo my co-panelist on
both sides
the biggest obstacle to a DPI adoption
and this was also highlighted in a recent
ADB Institute policy brief is the
complexity
and the fragmentation of financing models
andparticularly the lack of transparency
sustainability
and alignment with governance framework.
So there are few very specific challenges
in this space, so allow me to talk briefly
about some of those and how we are
collectively looking at addressing those.
So first, we see the lack of public information
and cost transparency as a challenge.
There's little public data on how DPIs are
financed or how much they cost to
implement
and operate, stressing the operate part.
This lack of limited transparency at least
makes it difficult for several countries,
especially in low-income ones to plan and
benchmark effectively.
A second challenge thatwe see is DPI
financing is often fragmented and
based on unsustainable
funding sources.
DPI financing often involves a mix of
government budgets
multilateral loans or grants,philanthropic
grants, private sector contribution.
However,too many of these sources are
non-sustainable andnot entirely aligned with
long-term operational
means.
This creates uncertainty andrisk for
countries trying to scale or maintain DPI
system.
The third obstacle is the misalignment
between financing and policy objective.
Financing choices when it comes to DPI can
unintentionally redefine the objectives of
the DPI.
For example,a government-led model may
prioritize inclusion
a fee-based model may prioritize
market efficiency. Those are very
different.
Without clear alignment, financing can
distort the intended public value of DPI.
Another key challenge thatwe're looking
intois the operational cost
which often exceeds
the capital cost.
So you all working in DPI,you understand
thatunlike physical infrastructure
DPI system
require ongoing investment.
I think this was mentioned earlier.
Another key challenge we're seeing and
we're looking at addressing in
collaboration with
other organization working desk spaces are
on governance and regulatory gaps.
Those are often obstacles as
effective DPI adoption requires robust
governance to prevent
sort of rent extraction.
Some countries have managed to handle this,
others are still on the fence on this.
And becausemany countries lack
thatregulatory capacity to oversee complex
multi-stakeholder
DPI system, joint support from various
organizations is required.
Finally, I want to mention the capacity
constraint in low-income countries.
Those capacity constraints still
prevail,especially in smaller and
low-income countries
which often lack technical capacity, financial
resources, and institutional readiness.
So all these elements makes adoption of
DPI a challenge.
At the Asian Development Bank,together
withour partners
other multilateral development
bank, UN organization, we're looking into
this.
We have a number of activities around those
different elements, whether it's capacity
development, smart financing, and other
areas.
We see DPI asa key element in achieving
SDGs,and we want to make sure that
we enhance the
collaboration of the development partners
on this.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much,
Mark.
So now I want to turn to Sheila,whose
organization recently published Toolkit for
Policy Makers.
So what learnings forpolicymakers on these
topics did she emphasize in that
policy brief?
Thank you, and thanks for the opportunity.
I think there are a few ways that we tend
to talk about DPI in the public discourse.
And one is as if it is a series of
projects that have a defined endpoint.
And this often comes up in the stack model
thatwe saw alluded to earlier
where we need
an ID solution, we build one, we need a
payment solution, we build one, we're done.
And the way we think aboutDPI is it's
actually more of a process that
doesn't have defined
outcomes. You're constantly shaping from
an evolving context.
This is particularly acutely true in the
cross-border context.
Similarly, we tend to talk about DPI as if
it is just neutral technology built.
And I would argue thatin particular
environment,but really always
it is a very political
act to decide what projects merit this
kind of funding,this kind of attention
and this
kind of resourcing, and the context, again,
is shifting all around us, particularly in
the current moment.
And we have to take that into consideration
if we are building responsibly.
And that gets to kind of the point where I'd
like to land, which is WHO are we building
DPI for? Who is it for?
And our view is it very much should be
about citizen empowerment.
And if it is instead simply
aboutefficiency or cost reduction
which are legitimate and
valid goals,then we're sort of missing the
point and
the purpose of why we're engaging
in the process in the first place.
And soour toolkit,which I encourage
everyone to read,of course
we launched it in Berlin
at GSS.
And we were very pleased to do that there
in partnership with GSI and with the UN.
It is called digital infrastructure
solutions to empower citizens
which is a very deliberate
title.
Because the entire project at Project
Liberty,the entire mission
is to put people back
at the center of the internet andto put
people back at the center of builds
of projects
and the entire orientation of how we think
about that.
And we talk about reclaiming our humanity
and our digital lives within these systems.
So all of this requires thinking
differently.
Now, what does that mean concretely?
One example, people care a lot about data
protection and privacy.
And we talk about this somewhat like it's
an afterthought.
It's often considered or touched on or we
adopt some standard andthink that
maybe we're
getting there.
But concepts of data protection andprivacy
need to be embedded within from
the very beginning
any system that we build.
And don't take my word for it.
We have data. We have evidence.
We actually surveyed 14, 000 adults across
a broad variety of countries, Brazil, China,
France, India, South Africa, the UK, the
US, in December.
We released the survey.
And I can tell you that the gross majority
of people surveyed across these countries
are deeply concerned-- this should not be
surprising-- are deeply concerned about the
amount of personal information internet
companies are holding.
Well, if you're building a DPI project, you
may not be an internet company, but there's
something about that architecture that's
going to feel familiar.
We're asking people to engage withthe
technology in a form factor
but if your UX is sufficiently
not clunky, I would say, we'll be familiar
to them.
And the differences aren't always obvious.
So their concerns about what's happening
with my information, WHO's using it, what
is it being used for, are again, fluid.
They're fluid over time and quite dynamic
in context.
And these issues are becoming quite
pronounced.
We see a particularly acute concern in India,
South Africa, and Brazil, where roughly 9
10 of these, again, it's a massive survey of
adults, were worried about what's happening
with their personal data.
Similarly, we see the same concerns about
AI.
AI is still new in many parts of the
world.
The idea that we talk about AI as if it's
monolithic, as if it's use is monolithic and
not culturally coded, is, but AMS,
frankly, to use a technical term.
There is a lot of cultural coding in how
people are thinking aboutand engaging with
AI
which is reflected in the concerns that they
share through surveys and other mechanisms
for collecting this kind of information.
88% of media of these surveyed across all
the seven countries say it's important to
think
about rules for AI. And over half said
that this is critically important to them.
So again,our toolkit has taken the Clayton
Christensen model that
was mentioned earlier
that was used in the Dominican Republic
and other places, and it adapts that model.
And we say thatbecause we think of DPI asa
process
that process needs to have assessment
design, safeguarding, and adaptation within
it, and be ever-evolving within any context
that is emerging. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Sheila.
And I want to take a moment to put
participants into the center.
So we'd like to collect a few questions
from the floor.
Perhaps we can do three. And then we wrap
up, and you can refer to the questions.
So WHO has a question from the floor?
Please, Madam. Thank you very much for
this presentation.
My question would relate to the technical
liquidity, as we would call it, that is the
ability of local providers,systems
integrators
the technical community in a country to
come
together to support these kinds of digital
public infrastructure projects.
I think Rwanda is one of the leading examples
of how they can pull this together and
do
a whole of government through their Arembo
system.
Kenya has done the same thing now withstarting
withtheir ETA system,which by the way
anybody
WHO's not gone to Kenya recently, they're
leading now.
That's the simplest system I've ever seen
for it, built locally.
So I think the same thing then has to be
true for the larger DPI.
How would you think about that?
Many companies thatcan win our fees are
usually not local,but then those that
are actually
going to do the work,ideally,would be
local,so they can serve the local citizens
withlocal
context. Thank you. Thank you.
Let's take three. Thank you very much.
My name is Nena from the internet.
I'd like to come back to digital
identities andbasically ID and
ID collaterals in general.
I wanted to find out fromthe panelists
what has been your experience when
citizens get
the impression,I'm talking aboutimpression
that identity collaterals are politically
motivated
instead of citizen service motivated
because most often identity collaterals
come into
recognition and greater advocacy from the
government around electoral periods.
And citizens get the feeling, and once again
I say it's a feeling, it's a sensation, it
may not be data backed
that identity collaterals are mostly
politically or electrically motivated.
When we know thatthese,mostly forcitizen
services,citizen rights
but ordinary citizens
do not seem to understand this, do not seem
to get the impression, how do we convince,
motivate all of us to get into the DPI
agenda.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
And we will do one more. I'm Krayim.
I'm Fatima Abiola Jamobi, and I have a
very simple and straightforward question.
Well, maybe not.
How does open source DPI tools
how can they help us to scale up impact in
either schools
or healthcare systems,or even in our
military or governance
especially in the case of low
resource settings that we have mostly in
the global south?
Thank you. Thank you very much for the
questions.
And I have a colleague showing me our time
sign.
So if we could do one round and
you have a minute each to share your
reflections on these
questions and or anything else that you
would like to share with the audience.
Yeah, we're starting with Yolanda on the
other side.
Yes,I think the beauty of using modularity
interoperability andopen standards when
building
digital government services, it's the input
to involve local developers and startups.
Because DPI is the foundation.
If you have a very good digital identity
system
then you can bring all startups to in bank
services or fintech
that will use this digital identity to
create additional services.
Same withhealthcare,if you have a very
good set of data secure,of course
we say what's
in place
but a policy around inviting startups to
create services around these basic systems
is also a way to scale. And now everything
needs to be done by the government.
The government puts the policy,puts the
building blocks,identity payments
interoperability.
But then the consistent comes around and
builds a lot of services.
And Latin America has been very successful
and
I also see part of the Dominican Republic
the bank association andthese type of
organizations when
you put in place collective effort can
make a huge difference. So the power of
partnerships is key in scaling DPI efforts.
Thank you.
Maybe to try to add a contribution to the
question on ecosystem development, it would
take more than a minute.
But at the Asian Development Bank, we've
been working quite hard on this one, trying
to find the right balance between providing
support to the local ecosystem and
not disturbing
it and it's a finance act.
Asia has many variations of tech
ecosystem,as we all know
with a lot of cross-country
colonization and exchange of DPI, DPG and
other digital practices.
We support those and
we're particularly looking around the use
of those DPI DPGs in the context
of regional integration, which is an
important subject in Asia and the Pacific.
Also considering the diversity of country
setting from
the giants of South Asia to the
smaller developing countries in the
Pacific.
And so again to echo my colleague from the
World Bank, seeing where partnership can make
sense andhelp to move the needle on
capacity,financing whilealso making sure that
countries
make their own decision in terms of where
they're going, in terms of DPI and what's
the alignment between the choices
thatthey're making andpolicy objective that
they're trying
to achieve. Thank you.
One of the nice things about using open
source is that we have these very mature
patterns for built-in on-ramps to do
capacity building.
We have experience,we have patterns
we have collateral to be able to help
support that
at the grassroots level, as well as support
for localization that then can be shared out
beyond.
So I think part of going with open source
is that you get to build on the experiences
of those WHOcome before,much like the
minister was talking aboutearlier,is that
we need
to learn fromthe patterns thatalready
exist,and soI think when
looking at open source
there are really known and established
ways to go about doing that.
Yeah, thank you.
Regarding the technology capacity,especially
the example here forRwanda
for us at the
regional level we are linking this to the
universities.
Today what we have done in the East African
community is the African Inter-Investor
Council
which now harmonizes the curriculum and
we also give the projects to our
university students.
So most of all of these national projects
thatyou are doing
casing example is the budget
management system we are using in the East
African community.
We have given students fromthe University
of Dara Salaam
then also the monitoring and
evaluation system is Macarera University.
Then the agriculture AI tool we are using
to correct the best site and
information within
all the East African University of
Nairobi.
So linking this to our academia research
group and
the students creates also the local
content
and also supports our team sothat we own
and
we are not basing onto the external
influence
of the big techs on the point of the
digital ID not being politically motivated.
I think at the region or wherever we have
sort of did that because today you know you
can move from Kenya to Uganda to Rwanda
with using ID.
So we have now made ID asa travel
document,not using it for
the purpose of the passport.
When you talk about the free movement within
our region, it's anchored onto the ID.
So the other services that you get, today
you can open and depost, you can, I can open
account K-CBO equity in Kenya
I transact in Uganda or Tanzania or South
Sudan or Burundi
using the other ID.
So the services thatwe have attached as
the region to support our citizens being
identified
and authenticated are also anchored on
that.
So I urge those that not only focusing to
use the ID for elections and the profiling
your citizens, but also giving the better
services.
So that's where the region has gone.
Despite that, you are not getting into the
digital ID to all, but even if you have that
ID you are having, that is, paper supports
your movement of goods.
The last point is on the, which he mentioned
about the open source, the open source to
our side in the East African community
perspective, we have embraced it in a sector.
We are using the DHIS-2, I think people from
South Africa know that when DHIS-2 failed,
they almost performed all the duties we
brought to the East African community at
least
all
the primary health data is captured under
the DHIS-2.
This is the University of Austria
platform,which we have now put into
all our universities
and our students are now working onto the
open platform.
So that is one of the way that may be
linking the open source for sustainability.
You're required to work withyour universities
andalso embrace the local academia and
plus
the research.
That is the only way we can embrace the
everlasting DPI andthe sustainable way for
development.
Thank you.
So I spent 14 years at TechSoup, eight as
an executive and six on the board, and then
I ran the C4R at the World Economic Forum.
And what those models had in common was
local partnerships.
And the ability to understand thatyou
cannot understand context and
they will see you are
living it, period full stop.
And at any sort of scale, you have to
consider that similarly.
And soI think part of how you asthe
Undersecretaries,I think,call to action for
all of us was
how do you engendered trust in these
systems?
How do you create transparency?
Well, again, it's an ongoing fluid
process.
And I think thatthe way to do thatis to go
back to people,to the people that
are going
to be using your systems,you're going to
be asking to trust your systems
you're going
to be asking to provide their data.
We know that's a critical thing forany
systems,and ask what they're concerned about
on an
ongoing basis, and constantly be thinking
about WHO is in that process and WHO is not
in that process, and what do those gaps
mean, what do those gaps represent.
And sometimes those are deliberate
choices.
These can be heavy processes.
These can be heavy solicitations to run to
get this kind of input, particularly on an
ongoing basis.
But without it, you end up suffering from
some of the problems we've heard identified
today. We've heard solutioning around this
as well.
I think Audrey Tong is an advisor to
Project Liberty Institute
and we talk a lot about
this intersectionality andhow you think
aboutmulti-stakeholder collaboration and
convenings
how you build trust in those systems, how
you get parties that are often oppositional
to each other into the same room to come
do some kind of consensus.
There are processes around that.
There are facilitation models for doing that,
but the trick is to pick one, to pick one
and make sure that you're doing it, doing
it consistently and openly, and constantly
questioning your own assumptions as you're
doing these builds.
Thank you. Thank you very much, Sheila.
And please, everyone, join me in giving a
big round of applause to our panelists.
And before we start going into the breakout
sessions, it is my pleasure to welcome our
second co-host country, the Republic of
Nigeria, and especially his excellently Dr.
Bosun Tijani,
WHO is the Minister of Communications,
Innovation, and Digital Economy.
Dr. Tijani is a leader in Africa's digital
transformation.
And prior to becoming the minister,he's
also the co-founder and
former CEO of co-creation
hub, which is one of Africa's leading
innovation centers.
He's a warm round of applause for his
excellency Minister Tijani.
I'm not sure this is up.
Great, good morning everyone, excellencies,
colleagues, distinguished delegates, permits
me to start by expressing my appreciation
to the United Nations Office for
Digital and
Emerging Technologies,and in particular,to
the Under Secretary General and
the Special
Envoy, Mr. Amandip Singh Gell for his
leadership on this global conversation.
I am, of course, deeply honored and considerate
a privilege to address you all today on
this important topic.
In my country,Nigeria
and I believe across many countries on the
African continent and
all over the world, people are asking a
very simple but profound question.
And that question is whether they can trust
their government to work with them through
life's most critical moments.
Imagine a young person thatseeks
education,or a parent that
struggles to access health
care, or an entrepreneur that looks for
access to capital or markets.
These are not merely transactions.
These are critical life events,and in them
lie opportunities for
governments to either
build trust or deepen apathy.
Sadly, as some of you may agree with me, I
think the later prevails in many places.
A trust deficit is fueled by disjointed
services,bureaucracy,exclusion
and sometimes outdated
systems as eroded the sacred contract
between the people and those WHO govern them.
Taughtfully designed anddeployed
technology offers a unique opportunity for
nations to
rebuild their trust, by allowing the states
to be present in the everyday journeys of
its citizens.
This is an intruder, but not as a bystander,
but as a quiet, intelligent, and enabling
force, one that is responsive, respectful,
and reliable.
This, for me, is the promise of digital
public infrastructure.
DPI is not just an evolution of
e-government
and I think we mix it up sometimes to talk
about e-government solutions.
It is a new form of social contract,one
thatoffers a modular hope
but also interoperable
foundation for innovation to thrive and for
public services to be delivered at scale.
Whether it is the foundational layer of
digital identity or the connective layer of
payment
or the data sharing layer thatenables
constant-based service delivery
DPI gives us a chance
to stitch together fragmented systems into
a coherent goal.
And the results are not theoretical,
they're not.
We are already seeing transformation being
led by DPI in societies all over the
world.
We all know the popular HADA story in
India,the HADA enabled stack
which became the foundation
for inclusive financial services, powering
over 400 million bank accounts and enabling
social protection at scale.
We don't often talk aboutit
but I know the representative of World
Bank was here earlier.
In my country Nigeria, over 150 million
people can now be digitally identified.
And together withour interbank settlement
system
which is one of the best of its kind
on the African continent
these us catalyze the RISE of an
extraordinary financial technology
ecosystem.
The fusion of digital identity, payments and
open banking regulations as turned Nigeria
into Africa's startup capital withthe
highest number of unicorns that
are solving real-world
problems.
So these are companies thathave not only
been able to provide solution locally
they've
also been able to amaze capital resources
to support what they're trying to build.
We all know aboutSingapore and
how Singapore shows how DPI can
orchestrate seamless city
states governance.
The Estonia reminds us of what it means to
digitize citizenship in itself
and my favorite
of all,Finland,teaches us that
citizens' experience must be mapped around
live events
not government silos.
But perhaps the most important lessons
fromall these experiences is that
DPI works best
when designed
withprinciples,openness,inclusion,privacy,security,almost importantly
interoperability
and not just with code.
To fully realize the power of DPI in
Nigeria, we are prioritizing five things.
The first being investment in foundational
infrastructure, particularly connectivity,
cloud energy and skills, which is why today,
working with the World Bank, the Nigerian
government is investing $2 billion in 90
000 kilometers of fiber optic network
across the
entire country.
In addition to this
we are on today the largest technology
talent accelerator program that
is known in the world
where we're trading 3 million technical
talent to help us power
ambition of using technology to transform
government,transform society
but also ensuring that
Nigeria can become a net exporter of
technology talent.
We're investing in 7,000 telecommunication
towers to connect rural areas that
are currently
unconnected with any form of
telecommunication services.
And lastly,we are working on a national
data park to incentivize investments and
encourage
hyperscalers and large data centers to
establish in our country.
Secondly, Nigeria is establishing legal and
governance frameworks that preserves rights
and promotes innovation,including our
national digital economy bill and
digital economy and
e-governance bill, which is the first time
we're having a single piece of legislation
that guides the entire digital economy and
how technology is used within government.
In addition to this,we've released our
national DPI framework
which is structured around
life events.
Thirdly,Nigeria is championing open
standards andmodular design
allowing DPI to evolve
with time,but also including the newly
released DPI standard and
the newly established presidential
committee for DPI in Nigeria, including the
agency that is responsible for our digital
ID,interbank settlement system agency,but
also the agency thatis responsible for
providing
technology backbone to the government, which
is also responsible for building our data
exchange system. And this committee in
itself is chaired by Mr. President.
Thirdly, we are activating and animating a
DPI ecosystem, one that enables startups,
civic tech, and local innovators to build
on the DPI rails that we've invested in as
a country.
And lastly,above all,we are living witha
moral clarity that
puts people at the center
not profit, not platforms, not politics.
Permit me to close by returning to where I
began, which is trust.
If our citizens cannot trust thatgovernment
will show up whenit matters most
we'll continue
to see fractures in the very fabric of
democracies.
Our DPI gives us a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to move from
the transactional state to the
responsive state,from siloed institutions
to integrated digital societies
from exclusion
to radical inclusion.
I'll therefore say
let us not just build DPI systems the way
we've built e-government
solutions in the past,let us build a new
compact of trust withtechnology as
the bridge
and leadership as the actual compact
itself.
And these we can only do, of course, when
we work together.
Thank you for the time to share with you.
Thank you. Thank you very much,
Excellency.
It's very inspiring to see how digital
cooperation is at the heart of the DPI agenda
in Nigeria
and how much you care about how DPI is built
and making sure that it's built with people
at the center. So you've made it, a big
round of applause to all of you.
We are now moving into the segment where
it is about co-creation.
So we have a slide andwe'll have six
breakout sessions now that
are across the UN headquarters
and you're seeing where they are.
Some of you may have signed up before.
They are volunteers across the building
WHO you can approach in case you're lost.
And the big goal for these sessions is to
develop calls to action that we will bring
to the global DPI summit in November.
So this is an opportunity to shape the
agenda of what is going to be discussed at
the global
DPI summit.
So the objective for each breakout session,
and the USG said it earlier, there's some
experimentation going on here, is to
develop a call to action.
So tangible andclear next steps that
the DPI community should be taking forward
at the
global level.
And after the sessions, we break for lunch
and we're meeting back in this room at 3pm
to share what you have been developing in
the breakout sessions.
So this is really a space for you to talk,
where you can talk about the topics that you
discussed in the breakout sessions
andpresent the calls to action and
determine the way forward
for this community as well.
We are 15 minutes late.
So all of the times that you see here, just
at 15 minutes to that, we budgeted enough
time for lunch. Yeah, let me know if you
have any questions.
And if you find that your breakout session
is full, you can always come back to this
room,and if you find thatyour breakout
session is full
you can always come back to this
room becausethe World Bank and
United Nations University are hosting a
breakout session
here in the Trusteeship Council.
So,if you find thatthe breakout room you
want to participate in is full
you can always
come back to the Trusteeship Council because
here in this room, the World Bank and you
are holding their breakout session.
All right, we'll try once more.
If you find thatyour breakout session is
full
you can always come back here to the
Trusteeship
Council where you and you and the World
Bank are holding their breakout session.
So, if you find that your breakout session
is full, you can always come back to the
Trusteeship Council wherethe World Bank
and
United Nations University are holding
their
breakout session.